Hello, everyone, this challenge video has less to do with programming and coding and more to do with
the big picture of maintaining your live Web site.
I'm challenging you to make sure you have an update plan in place because keeping a WordPress website
updated is 99 percent of the security battle.
Sometimes WordPress gets an unfair reputation of being insecure and easy to hack.
However, I would say that WordPress is incredibly secure, but only if you keep it updated.
The moment a live WordPress website becomes outdated, it's almost a 100 percent guarantee that it will
get hacked.
It's not even a question of if.
It's a question of when.
I can speak from personal experience.
I've used WordPress for about 12 years and I have never once had an updated WordPress website get hacked.
The few times that the security of one of my sites was compromised, it was always because I got lazy
and let the website become outdated.
Now, security in and of itself could be its own 10 to 20 hour course.
But in my opinion, keeping your website updated is so important to security that I figured I'd be doing
you a disservice if I didn't include this in the course.
So the entire point of this challenge is to present you with the two main plans or strategies to keeping
your site updated.
Let's say update plan A and update Plan B, plan A is to leave automatic updates enabled for your live
Web hosting copy of WordPress.
And this is the plan that I recommend for 99 percent of people and sites.
And update Plan B is to be a control freak and disable auto updates because you're worried that an update
might break a certain feature on your website.
So the idea here is that when you see that the core or security team of WordPress has pushed out an
update, you first test that update within your local dev environment.
You check to see if the update breaks anything.
And if it doesn't and things look good, then you manually push those updates onto the live Web hosting
copy of your site.
Now, before we go any further, I want to point out that both myself and the documentation of the official
WordPress website strongly discourage this disabling of auto updates.
So, like I said, I recommend Plan A for 99 percent of projects.
The only way I would ever go with Plan B is if a project had a really large budget and you had a person
that was devoted to maintaining that one live site.
So that way they could really be on top of updates.
And as soon as WordPress puts out a security update within that same 24 hour period, they could test
things locally and then push the updates live.
If you do not have someone that can really be on top of things, I would never go with Plan B, because
even if your live website is only outdated for a day or a few days or a week, there is a very, very
good chance you will get hacked.
This idea of wanting to manually manage your updates comes from a good place.
And with most software, that approach makes sense.
But when it comes to WordPress, I feel like this idea of trying to manually manage your updates is
completely misplaced.
WordPress is a unique monster.
As of today, it powers about 28 percent of the entire Web and its source code is completely open source.
So we need to realize that 24/7, 365, there are people studying the WordPress code both for good and
for evil.
Every day around the clock, there are people making improvements to WordPress to make it more secure.
But there are also malicious people and hackers who are trying to find a security hole in WordPress.
And if I was an evil hacker, WordPress would definitely be one of my targets as well.
Because if you do find a security hole, you just found a back door into the software that powers over
a quarter, almost a third of the entire Web for an open source project of this magnitude, it's my
opinion that you should just always leave auto updates enabled, for example, if you're trying to decide
between plan A and B, why don't we do a quick risk analysis for both?
So if you leave auto updates on what is the percent chance that an update will break a feature on your
site, I would call it a one percent risk.
To be generous, we could say anywhere from one to 10 percent risk.
On the other hand, if you disable auto updates and you're not on top of things and you get lazy and
you don't update your site for maybe a week or longer, what chance or what risk is there of getting
hacked?
I would say there's a 99 to a one.
100 percent chance that you will be hacked, your site will become infested with adware and malware.
I don't know about you, but plan looks a lot better to me.
I will take my chances that there's a one percent risk, that an update will break a feature.
And even if it does, hopefully you're checking your website every day or two and you notice if something's
broken, you can just go in and update your code to work with the updated version of WordPress.
Sure, your website might have looked a bit funny for a day or two or even worst case, it was entirely
broken.
But what's the alternative?
Having your website completely hacked that could completely destroy your entire brand image.
If people find out that your website was installing viruses on people's computer or that a hacker was
able to get someone's email address from your database.
I feel like that would do way more damage to your brand than if your website looked weird for a day
or so.
So clearly I am a big fan of auto updates.
Now, by default, WordPress only enables minor updates for large, major updates.
You will need to manually click the update button from within the admin dashboard.
However, as we can see on the official WordPress documentation here with just a little bit of code,
you can set even major updates to happen automatically.
That's completely personal preference and is a bit controversial.
So I will leave that one up to you.
OK, now, moving on to our next topic.
Whether you choose Plan A or Plan B, your choice here is going to affect how you should structure your
repository with all of your WordPress files.
What I mean by this is if you are going to allow your live Web hosting copy of WordPress to perform
automatic updates, there's really no sense in keeping all of the WordPress system files within your
git repo.
So, for example, if you were going with Plan A and leaving automatic updates enabled within your git
repo, if I go into my app and then WP content, you would really only need to have your theme folder
within version control.
Right, because all of the other WordPress system files would be automatically maintained updated on
your server level.
Or you could keep your entire WordPress installation in GIT, but then configure your deploy service
to only deploy certain folders like your theme folder.
Or you could set up your deploy tool to exclude certain folders like the WP admin and the WP includes
folders.
Right, because those would get automatically maintained by the server.
There is no objectively right or wrong way of doing this.
It's all just personal preference and finding something that works for you.
Big picture whether you choose auto updates or you choose the more controversial path of disabling auto
updates, you just want to make sure that your git structure and deploy tool is doing what you would
expect and is in sync with your update plan that's going to bring this challenge video to a close.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next one.